‘Gold Standard’ Questionnaires (Deliverable of Task 2)
 KULeuven

1) New user registration: intake questions

Intake Q1
What is your gender?
Male
Female

Intake Q2
What is your age?
Less than 1 year
1 year
2 years
…

Intake Q3
What is your home postal code ?
XXXX

Intake Q4
What is your school/workplace postal code ?
XXXX

Intake Q5
In your daily life, do you come into frequent contact with any of the following? (Tick all that apply)
Groups of children
Groups of the elderly (>65 years of age)
Patients
Large numbers of people (>10 individuals)


Intake Q6

Not counting you, how many people in each of the following age groups live in your household?


0-4
5-18
19-44
45-64
65+

Drop down menu






Intake Q6b
(If any in household are aged 0-4, including participant):
How many of ther children aged 0-4 in your household go to school or day-care ?
X

Intake Q7
What is your daily main means of transportation?
Walking
Bike
Motorbike/scooter
Car
Public transportation (Bus, train, …)
Other


Intake Q7b
On a normal day, how much time do you spend on public transport (bus, train, underground)?
No time at all
0-30 minutes
30 minutes – 1,5 hours
1,5 hours – 4 hours
>4 hours


Intake Q8 (not a core question)
How often a year do you have common colds or flu-like diseases?
Never
One or two times a year
Between 3 and 5 times a year
Between 6 and 10 times a year
More than 10 times a year

Intake Q9
Did you receive vaccination(s) for pandemic A/H1N1 Mexican flu during the fall or winter season 2009-2010?
Yes
No
Don’t know



Intake Q9b: follow-up question
When did you receive vaccination(s) for pandemic A/H1N1 Mexican flu  during the fall or winter season 2009-2010 ?
Date of the first dose ?  XX/XX/XXXX
If you received two doses: date of the second dose ? XX/XX/XXXX

Intake Q10
Did you receive vaccination(s) for seasonal flu during the fall or winter season 2009-2010?
Yes
No
Don’t know

Intake Q11
Did you already  receive a seasonal flu vaccination this fall or winter season (2010-2011) ?
Yes, go to questions Q11b and Q11c
No, go to question Q11d
Don’t know

Intake Q11b: Follow-up question
When did you receive a seasonal influenza vaccination this fall or winter season (2010-2011) ?
Date of the seasonal flu vaccination ?  XX/XX/XXXX

Intake Q11c: Follow-up question
What were your reasons for getting a seasonal influenza vaccination this fall or winter season (2010-2011) ? (Tick all that apply)
Because I belong to a risk group
Because vaccination decreases the risk of developing influenza yourself
Because vaccination decreases the risk of spreading influenza to others
Because my general practitioner recommended influenza vaccination
Because it was recommended in my workplace/school
Because thevaccine was readily available and vaccine administration was convenient
Because the vaccine was free (no cost)
Because I don’t want to miss work/school
Because I believe that the vaccine is effective
Other reason(s)
Note: this list is, as suggested by John Edmunds, adapted from the article by Hollmeyer et al., 2009 (Influenza vaccination of health care workers in hospitals: a review of studies on attitudes and predictors)



Intake Q11d: Follow-up question
What were your reasons for NOT getting a seasonal influenza vaccination this fall or winter season (2010-2011) ? (Tick all that apply)
Because I personally do not need influenza vaccination since I do not belong to a risk group
Because it is better to build your own natural immunity against the flu
Because I doubt that the influenza vaccine is effective
Because I think that influenza is a minor illness
Because I am convinced that the influenza vaccine can cause influenza
Because I am worried that the vaccine is not safe or will cause illness or other adverse events
Because the vaccine is not readily available to me
Because the vaccine is not free of charge
Because I dislike injections
Other reason(s)
Note: this list is, as suggested by John Edmunds, adapted from the article by Hollmeyer et al., 2009 (Influenza vaccination of health care workers in hospitals: a review of studies on attitudes and predictors)

Intake Q12
Do you take medication for any of the following medical conditions?
Asthma
Diabetes
Lung disorder (COPD, emphysema, …)
Heart disorder
Kidney disorder
Immunocompromised (e.g. splenectomy, cancer treatment)

Intake Q13
Are you currently pregnant ?
Yes, go to question Q12b
No
Don’t know


Intake Q13b: follow-up question
If you are currently pregnant, in which trimester of the pregnancy are you
First trimester (week 1-12)
Second trimester (week 13-28)
Third trimester (week 29-delivery)
Don’t know



Intake Q14
Do you smoke daily?
No
Yes, less than 10 cigarettes a day
Yes, more than 10 cigarettes a day
Don’t know

Intake Q15 
Do you have one of the following allergies that can cause respiratory symptoms? (Multiple answers possible)
Pollen (hay fever)
House dust mite
Domestic animals/pets
Other allergies that cause respiratory symptoms (e.g. sneezing, runny eyes)

Intake Q16 (not a core question)
Do you follow a special diet?
No special diet
Vegetarian
Veganism
Low-calorie
Other

Intake Q17 (not a core question)
Do you have pets at home? (Multiple answers possible)
No
Yes, one or more dogs
Yes, one or more cats
Yes, one or more birds
Yes, one ore more other animals








2) Weekly evaluation of disease symptoms


Weekly Q1
Did you have one or more of the following symptoms since your last visit?
(Tick all that apply)
No symptoms

Fever (i.e. high temperature) and /or chills
Watery, bloodshot eyes
Runny or blocked nose
Sneezing
Sore throat
Cough
Coloured sputum
Headache
Muscle pain
Chest pain
Feeling tired or exhausted
Loss of appetite
Nausea
Vomiting
Diarrhoea
Other

Weekly Q2
Check database: was the participant STILL ILL at the time of their last visit (i.e. they said “I am still ill” in response to Q5 below last time?)
Yes: If the participant reported symptoms during the last visit, continue with Q3
No: Then this could potentially be the start of a “new” illness, continue with Q4

Weekly Q3
If the participant was STILL ILL on their last visit and has reported symptoms this time:
“On DATE OF LAST VISIT you reported that you were still ill with symptoms that began on DATE OF FIRST SYMPTOMS. Are the symptoms you reported today part of the same bout of illness?
If NO:
This means that the current symptoms are the start of a “new” illness, continue with Q4

if YES: 
This means that the current symptoms are the continuation of the same bout of illness as the previous visit. The remainder of the symptoms questionnaire (onset date, further details about symptoms, details about seeking medical attention, treatment, time off work/school) can be pre-filled with their previous answers:
“To save you time, we have filled in the information you gave us previously about your illness. Please check that it is still correct, and make any changes – for instance, if you have visited a doctor since you last completed the survey.”

Weekly Q4 (if symptoms)
When did the first symptoms appear?
Choose date XX/XX/XXXX

Weekly Q5 (if symptoms)
When did your symptoms end?
Choose date XX/XX/XXXX
I am still ill

Weekly Q6 (if symptoms)
Did you have fever ?
No
Yes
I don’t know

Weekly Q6b (if symptoms) and (if fever): follow-up question
If you had a fever, what was the highest temperature measured? 
37° - 37.5°C
37.5° - 38°C
38° – 39°C
39° - 40°C
More than 40°C
I did not measure it with a thermometer

Weekly Q7 (if symptoms)
Did the symptoms develop abruptly (sudden high fever or chills) over a couple of hours ?
No
Yes
I don’t know

Weekly Q8 (if symptoms)
Because of your symptoms, did you seek medical attention by visiting (seeing face to face) any of the following (tick all that apply)?
General practitioner (GP) or GP’s practice nurse
Hospital admission
Hospital accident & emergency department/out of hours service
Other

Weekly Q8b (if symptoms) – this should be asked for each option ticked in the previous question
How soon after your symptoms appeared did you seek medical attention ?
<12 hours
12-24 hours (1 day)
2 days
3 days
4 days
5-7 days
>7 days

Weekly Q8c (if symptoms)
Because of your symptoms, did you seek medical attention by telephone with any of the following (tick all that apply)?
GP – spoke to receptionist only
GP – spoke to GP/practice nurse
NHS direct or NHS24
NPFS
Other
Note: this is adapted to the UK situation. Other countries will need to adapt this question, or it might not be an essential question in other countries

Weekly Q9 (if symptoms)
Did you take medication for these symptoms?
No medication
Pain killers or antipyretics (e.g. paracetamol, lemsip, etc)
Expectorants (cough medication)
Antivirals (Tamiflu, Relenza)
Antibiotics
Other
Note: this is adapted to the UK situation. Other countries will need to adapt the brand names of the commonly used pain killers or antipyretics

Weekly Q9b (if antivirals were taken): follow-up question
How long after the beginning of your symptoms did you start taking antiviral medication
Same day (within 24 hours)
1 day later
2 days later
3 days later 
4 days later
5-7 days later
>7 days later



Weekly Q10
Did you change your daily routine because of your illness ?
No
Yes, but I did not take time off work/school
Yes, I took time off work/school

Weekly Q10b (if symptoms) & (if taken time off work/school): follow-up question
How long were you off work/school ?
1 day
2 days
3 days 
4 days
5 days
6 days
1 to 2 weeks
2 to 3 weeks
>3 weeks

Weekly Q10c (if symptoms) & (if taken time off work/school): follow-up question
Are you still off work/school ?
Yes
No

Weekly Q11 (ask everyone) 
How many people in your household have had flu-like symptoms in the past week?
X

Weekly Q12 (if no seasonal flu vaccination yet reported)
According to our data you did not receive a seasonal flu vaccination?
Yes, I did not receive a seasonal flu vaccination
No, meanwhile I have received a seasonal flu vaccination

3) Contact questionnaire 


Contact Q1 
How many people did you have conversational contact with yesterday?

0-4 years
5-18 years
19-44 years
45-64 years
65+ years
Home





Work





Other






Contact Q2 
How many people did you have physical contact with yesterday?

0-4 years
5-18 years
19-44 years
45-64 years
65+ years
Home





Work





Other







Contact Q3
On a normal day, how much time do you spend on public transport (bus, train, undergound)?
No time at all
0-30 minutes
30 minutes – 1,5 hours
1,5 hours – 4 hours
>4 hours


Contact Q4
Not including public transport, how long did you spend in an enclosed indoor space (e.g. office, classroom, bar, cinema) with more than 10 other people yesterday ?
No time at all
0-30 minutes
30 minutes – 1,5 hours
1,5 hours – 4 hours
>4 hours


